README.md, before:

# PhysX JS

PhysX on the web.

This repo complements the work being done over at [prestomation/PhysX](https://github.com/prestomation/PhysX) to create emscripten bindings for [NVIDIAGameWorks/PhysX](https://github.com/NVIDIAGameWorks/PhysX). 
At some point the prestomation/PhysX fork may be merged into NVIDIAGameWorks/PhysX and this repo will be updated to track that repo.

This repo serves two purposes:

- Offer a reproducible docker environment to easily build and compile PhysX to WebAssembly via [Emscripten](https://emscripten.org)
- House the files used to publish this as a package on npm ([physx-js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/physx-js))

## Example

There is an example of how to use this with Webpack in the `/example` folder. 

Alternatively you can [preview the live version](https://physx-js-example.deminetix.now.sh) hosted on now.sh

## Usage via npm

```
npm install physx-js
```

The `physx.release.js` file can be imported via Webpack etc or included as a script on the page

The `physx.release.wasm` needs to be served in a public folder so that it can be loaded in a browser environment

See `/example` for how this can be done using Webpack.

## Usage via CDN (jsDelivr)

Depending on your environment, you may not be able to use npm. 

In this case, you can include the js file as a script via the CDN that mirrors the npm library:

```
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/physx-js/dist/physx.release.js">
```

Then configure it to also load the wasm file from the CDN:

```
PHYSX({
  locateFile(path) {
    if (path.endsWith('.wasm')) {
      return 'https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/physx-js/dist/physx.release.wasm'
    }
    return path
  }
})

```

## Development

You can modify and/or build this yourself from source to create js and wasm files.

The only dependencies you need are Docker and Node/NPM. All other dependencies are managed inside the docker image.

```
// clone this repo
git clone https://github.com/ashconnell/physx-js.git

// install PhysX source dependency
npm install

// build
npm run build
```

This will start a docker container, mount the PhysX source code and then build and compile it using emscripten.

The output files (js and wasm) are copied into ./dist

Commit message:

split build scripts to make adding bindings easier

README.md, after:

# PhysX JS

PhysX for JavaScript.

This repo complements the work being done over at [prestomation/PhysX](https://github.com/prestomation/PhysX) to create emscripten bindings for [NVIDIAGameWorks/PhysX](https://github.com/NVIDIAGameWorks/PhysX). 
At some point the prestomation/PhysX fork may be merged into NVIDIAGameWorks/PhysX and this repo will be updated to track that repo instead.

This repo serves multiple purposes:

- Provide a Docker workflow for compiling and building PhysX to WebAssembly via [Emscripten](https://emscripten.org)
- Provide a Docker workflow for adding new bindings (the whole PhysX API is not currently covered yet)
- To publish WebAssembly files to npm ([physx-js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/physx-js)) so that they can be used in projects via npm or CDN

## Example

There is an example with [threejs](https://threejs.org/) and [physx-js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/physx-js) using Webpack in the `/example` folder.
The example is also available to [preview here](https://physx-js-example.deminetix.now.sh), it's hosted on [now](https://zeit.co/)

## Usage via npm

```
npm install physx-js
```

The `physx.release.js` file can be imported via Webpack or included as a script on the page

The `physx.release.wasm` file needs to be served in a static/public folder so that it can be loaded in a browser environment

See `/example` for how this can be done using Webpack.

## Usage via CDN (jsDelivr)

You may want to load the WebAssembly files via CDN, in which case you can use jsDelivr's npm mirror, loaded as a script:

```
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/physx-js/dist/physx.release.js">
```

You can also target a specific version:

```
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/physx-js@0.0.6/dist/physx.release.js">
```

Then configure this to also load the wasm file from the same place:

```
PHYSX({
  locateFile(path) {
    if (path.endsWith('.wasm')) {
      return 'https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/physx-js@0.0.6/dist/physx.release.wasm'
    }
    return path
  }
})

```

## Development

You can build the source yourself and/or add new bindings. The full [PhysX API](https://gameworksdocs.nvidia.com/PhysX/4.1/documentation/physxapi/files/index.html) isn't covered yet but more will be added

The only dependencies you need to do this are Docker, node and npm. All other dependencies are managed inside the docker image.

```
// Clone this repo
git clone https://github.com/ashconnell/physx-js.git

// Install/update the PhysX source dependency
npm install

// Generate the project (i believe this only needs to be run once, can take a while)
npm run generate

// Build WebAssembly files (physx.release.js and physx.release.wasm)
npm run make
```

This will start a docker container, mount the PhysX source code and then build and compile it using emscripten.

The output files (js and wasm) are copied into ./dist

If you want to add new bindings, edit `physx/source/physxwebbindings/src/PxWebBindings.cpp` and then run `npm run make` to build it.
